Add updated Cohere Embedding blueprint (#1950)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/remote_inference_blueprints/cohere_connector_embedding_blueprint.md

### Cohere Embedding Connector Blueprint:

> This blueprint will show you how to connect a Cohere embedding model to your Opensearch instance, including creating a k-nn index and your own Embedding pipeline. You will require a Cohere API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blueprint will show you how to connect a Cohere embedding model to your Opensearch cluster, including creating a k-nn index and your own Embedding pipeline. You will require a Cohere API key to create a connector.
```

Cohere currently offers the following Embedding models (with model name and embedding dimensions). Note that only the following have been tested with the blueprint guide.

- embed-english-v3.0 1024
- embed-english-v2.0 4096

See [Cohere's /embed API docs](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed) for more details.

#### 1; Update your Opensearch cluster settings

```json
PUT /_cluster/settings

{
    "persistent": {
        "plugins.ml_commons.trusted_connector_endpoints_regex": [

>           "^https://api\\.cohere\\ai/.*$",

Reviewer: We already added this Cohere URl pattern to default trsuted endpoints list,  don't need to ask user do this again.

Author: Sg

        ]
    }
}
```

If you have existing cluster settings, make sure to add them inside the array of endpoints.

#### 2. Create your Model connector and Model group

##### 2a. Register your Model group

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/model_groups/_register

{
  "name": "cohere_model_group",
  "description": "Your Cohere model group"
}
```

This request response will return the `model_group_id`, note it down.

> ##### 2b. Create your Model connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### 2b. Create connector
```

See above for all the values the `parameters > model` parameter can take.

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "Cohere Embed Model",
  "description": "The connector to Cohere's public embed API",
  "version": "1",
  "protocol": "http",
  "credential": {
    "cohere_key": "<ENTER_COHERE_API_KEY_HERE>"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "model": "<ENTER_MODEL_NAME_HERE>", // Choose a Model from the provided list above
    "input_type":"search_document",
    "truncate": "END"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://api.cohere.ai/v1/embed",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Bearer ${credential.cohere_key}",
        "Request-Source": "unspecified:opensearch"
      },
      "request_body": "{ \"texts\": ${parameters.texts}, \"truncate\": \"${parameters.truncate}\", \"model\": \"${parameters.model}\", \"input_type\": \"${parameters.input_type}\" }",
      "pre_process_function": "connector.pre_process.cohere.embedding",
      "post_process_function": "connector.post_process.cohere.embedding"
    }
  ]
}
```

This request response will return the `connector_id`, note it down.

> ##### 2c. Register your Model connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### 2c. Register your Model with connector
```

> You will now register the model you created using the `model_group_id` and `connector_id` from the previous requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can register a model with the `model_group_id` and `connector_id` created from the previous steps.
```

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "name": "Cohere Embed Model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "model_group_id": "<MODEL_GROUP_ID>",
    "description": "Your Cohere Embedding Model",
    "connector_id": "<CONNECTOR_ID>"
}
```

This will create a registration task, the response should look like:

```json
{
  "task_id": "9bXpRY0BRil1qhQaUK-u",
  "status": "CREATED",
  "model_id": "9rXpRY0BRil1qhQaUK_8"
}
```

> You can then check whether the registration task has completed with a GET request:

Reviewer: Line 108 to 127 is not needed, as user can see the model id directly from line 104

```json
GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/<TASK_ID>
```

Once the response looks like the below example, where `state` is `COMPLETED`, your model will be ready for deployment.

```json
{
  "model_id": "9rXpRY0BRil1qhQaUK_8",
  "task_type": "REGISTER_MODEL",
  "function_name": "REMOTE",
  "state": "COMPLETED",
  "worker_node": ["ZYMBMV5RRbutADZtlk0c8w"],
  "create_time": 1706274934888,
  "last_update_time": 1706274935060,
  "is_async": false
}
```

> ##### 2d. Deploy your Model connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### 2d. Deploy model
```

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/9rXpRY0BRil1qhQaUK_8/_deploy
```

This will once again spawn a task to deploy your Model, with a response that will look like:

```json
{
  "task_id": "97XrRY0BRil1qhQaQK_c",
  "task_type": "DEPLOY_MODEL",
  "status": "COMPLETED"
}
```

You can run the GET tasks request again to verify the status.

```json
GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/<TASK_ID>
```

Once this is complete, your Model is deployed and ready!

##### 2e. Testing your Model

You can try this request to test that the Model behaves correctly:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/<MODEL_ID_HERE>/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "texts": ["Say this is a test"]
  }
}
```

It should return a response similar to this:

```json
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "sentence_embedding",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1024
          ],
          "data": [
            -0.0024547577,
            0.0062217712,
            -0.01675415,
            -0.020736694,
            -0.020263672,
            ... ...
            0.038635254
          ]
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

> #### (Optional) 3. Setup your k-NN index and ingestion pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### (Optional) 3. Setup k-NN index and ingestion pipeline
```

### Cohere Embedding Connector Blueprint:

This blueprint will show you how to connect a Cohere embedding model to your Opensearch instance, including creating a k-nn index and your own Embedding pipeline. You will require a Cohere API key.

> Cohere currently offers the following Embedding models (with model name and embedding dimensions). Note that only a couple are tested.

Reviewer: > Note that only a couple are tested.

Do you have any plan for the untested models?

Author: @ylwu-amzn Hey sorry, just had some time to check this out again. I removed the other untested models and will make a note to test out the other ones when time clears up, I've addressed all the other PR comments

Author: @ylwu-amzn is it alright to merge this PR standalone, and update the doc again later when I get a chance to test?

- embed-english-v3.0 1024
- embed-multilingual-v3.0 1024
- embed-english-light-v3.0 384
- embed-multilingual-light-v3.0 384
- embed-english-v2.0 4096
- embed-english-light-v2.0 1024
- embed-multilingual-v2.0 768

See [Cohere's /embed API docs](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed) for more details.

#### 1; Update your Opensearch cluster settings

```json
PUT /_cluster/settings

{
    "persistent": {
        "plugins.ml_commons.trusted_connector_endpoints_regex": [

>           "^https://production\\.api\\.cohere\\ai/.*$",

Reviewer: Did Cohere change the endpoint ? We have ` "^https://api\\.openai\\.com/.*$",` in code now
https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/main/plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/ml/settings/MLCommonsSettings.java#L129C20-L129C53

If needed, please also update the code to replace or add the trusted endpoint .

Author: We support both `production.api.cohere.ai` and `api.cohere.ai` base URLs. I assume you mean `api.cohere.ai` from your comment, I'll change it to that just to avoid any confusion.

        ]
    }
}
```

If you have existing cluster settings, make sure to add them inside the array of endpoints.

#### 2. Create your Model connector and Model group

##### 2a. Register your Model group

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/model_groups/_register

{
  "name": "cohere_model_group",
  "description": "Your Cohere model group"
}
```

This request response will return the `model_group_id`, note it down.

##### 2b. Create your Model connector

See above for all the values the `parameters > model` parameter can take.

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "Cohere Embed Model",
  "description": "The connector to Cohere's public embed API",
  "version": "1",
  "protocol": "http",
  "credential": {
    "cohere_key": "<ENTER_COHERE_API_KEY_HERE>"
  },
  "parameters": {

>     "model": "<ENTER_MODEL_NAME_HERE>",

Reviewer 2: Add a hint here "choose your model from the provided model list"?

Author: Sounds good

    "input_type":"search_document",
    "truncate": "END"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://api.cohere.ai/v1/embed",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Bearer ${credential.cohere_key}",
        "Request-Source": "unspecified:opensearch"
      },

>       "request_body": "{ \"texts\": ${parameters.texts}, \"truncate\": \"${parameters.truncate}\", \"model\": \"${parameters.model}\", \"input_type\": \"${parameters.input_type}\" }",

Author: Only the `embed-english-v3.0` and `embed-english-v2.0` are tested - I will keep the others documented but make sure to mark them as Untested. Let me know if it's preferable to just remove them.

>       "request_body": "{ \"texts\": ${parameters.texts}, \"truncate\": \"${parameters.truncate}\", \"model\": \"${parameters.model}\", \"input_type\": \"${parameters.input_type}\" }",

Reviewer: Best to test them and check if the request body can work for all of these, if not, we can remove these to make it clear.  Or if you have time, you can add more connector blueprint for other models

>       "request_body": "{ \"texts\": ${parameters.texts}, \"truncate\": \"${parameters.truncate}\", \"model\": \"${parameters.model}\", \"input_type\": \"${parameters.input_type}\" }",

Author: Done, removed the others and clarified that only english v3 and v2 are tested

```json
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/cohere-ingest-pipeline
{
  "description": "Test Cohere Embedding pipeline",
  "processors": [
    {
      "text_embedding": {
        "model_id": "<MODEL_ID>",
        "field_map": {
          "passage_text": "passage_embedding"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Sample response:

```json
{
  "acknowledged": true
}
```

##### 3b. Create a k-NN index

Here `cohere-nlp-index` is the name of your index, you can change it as needed.

````json
PUT /cohere-nlp-index

{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true,
    "default_pipeline": "cohere-ingest-pipeline"
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "id": {
      "type": "text"
      },
      "passage_embedding": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 1024,
        "method": {
          "engine": "lucene",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "name": "hnsw",
          "parameters": {}
        }
      },
      "passage_text": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}

Sample response:

```json
{
  "acknowledged": true,
  "shards_acknowledged": true,
  "index": "cohere-nlp-index"
}
````

##### 3c. Testing the index and pipeline

First, you can insert a record:

```json

> PUT /cohere-nlp-index/\_doc/1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PUT /cohere-nlp-index/_doc/1
```

Author: Thanks!
